Add labs for KMM v2.0 (#868)
rh-ecosystem-edge/kernel-module-management: docs/mkdocs/labsv2.md

## Driver Toolkit

We could use any image that includes the necessary libraries and dependencies for building a kernel module for our specific version. However, for ease, we can leverage Driver Toolkit (DTK), which is a container image used as a base image for building kernel modules.

When using DTK, we should set which version of the Driver Toolkit [image](https://github.com/openshift/driver-toolkit#finding-the-driver-toolkit-image-url-in-the-payload) we are using to match the exact kernel version running on OpenShift nodes. In our case, we are using DTK with KMM and KMM will automatically determine what DTK digest should be used if the `DTK_AUTO` build argument is specified in the Dockerfile.

We can get further info at DTK [repository](https://github.com/openshift/driver-toolkit#readme).

## Building In-Cluster Modules from Sources

In this example, we will demonstrate how to build the kernel module in our cluster using sources from a git repository. For this and next examples it is assumed that a namespace `labsv2` and a ServiceAccount `labsv2sa` allowed to use the privileged SCC have been previously created.

The process involves several steps:

> 1. Adding a ConfigMap: We will create a ConfigMap to store all the necessary information for the build process, including the image we are using (DTK in this case), the remote git repository containing the sources, and the compiling commands.

Reviewer: I would add that the ConfigMap contains the actual Dockerfile that will be used for build purposes, to make it more clear

> 2. Creating the Module object: Next, we'll create the Module object itself. It will configure the registry for the resulting image, set up a secret for possible authentication, specify the previously created ConfigMap for use, and define the nodes where the pods should be scheduled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Creating the Module object: Next, we'll create the Module object itself. It will specify the image to be built and used, a secret for possible authentication, ConfigMap for building process, and the nodes where the pods should be scheduled.
```

    name: myrepo-pull-secret
  selector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
```

We can confirm that `joydev` module is not loaded and our new module is loaded now just by listing the modules in one of our nodes and check that there is no output:
```
05:19:01 root@rhcs-sign-test labsv2-test → oc debug node/ebl-worker-1.edgeinfra.cloud 
Temporary namespace openshift-debug-mr26h is created for debugging node...
Starting pod/ebl-worker-1edgeinfracloud-debug ...
To use host binaries, run `chroot /host`

Pod IP: 192.168.122.101
If you don't see a command prompt, try pressing enter.
sh-4.4# 
sh-4.4# chroot /host
sh-5.1# lsmod | grep joydev
sh-5.1# lsmod | grep kmm   
kmm_ci_a               16384  0
sh-5.1# 
```

## Device Plugins

Device plugins play a crucial role in allocating and reporting specific hardware devices to the cluster. In KMM, you can load device plugin images as part of the Module object.

For this example, we will utilize this plugin called [simple-device-plugin](https://github.com/yevgeny-shnaidman/simple-device-plugin) to simulate device plugins. This plugin provides a way to emulate device plugins and test their functionality within the cluster.

> It just loads some dummy devices settings in nodes as if they were reported by real hardware and then used by the moduleLoader.

Reviewer: this sentence is not clear to me: what component is loading dummy device settings on the node?

      - "-config=config-labs.yaml"
  moduleLoader:
    serviceAccountName: labsv2sa
    container:
      modprobe:
        moduleName: kmm-ci-a
      kernelMappings:
        - regexp: '^.*'
          containerImage: myrepo.xyz/kmm-labs:kmm-kmod-5.14.0-284.36.1.el9_2.x86_64-v1.0
  imageRepoSecret:
    name: myrepo-pull-secret
  selector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""

```
We can check that our device plugin app has been loaded just describing one of the selected nodes and looking at the resources.

```bash
$ oc describe node mynode
...
Allocated resources:
  (Total limits may be over 100 percent, i.e., overcommitted.)
  Resource                   Requests      Limits
  --------                   --------      ------
  cpu                        749m (9%)     0 (0%)
  memory                     4406Mi (29%)  0 (0%)
  ephemeral-storage          0 (0%)        0 (0%)
  hugepages-1Gi              0 (0%)        0 (0%)
  hugepages-2Mi              0 (0%)        0 (0%)
  dummy/dummyDev             0             0
  example.com/ptemplate      0             0
  example.com/simple-device  0             0
...
```

##  Seamless upgrade of kernel Module: Orderly process without reboot

> To minimize the impact on the workload running in the cluster, kernel module upgrades should be performed on a per-node basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To minimize the impact on the workload running in the cluster, kernel module upgrades should be performed on a per-node basis in an order that can be defined/managed by user
```

First, label the specific node that requires the kernel module upgrade. Use the following format:

```
kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.<module-namespace>.<module-name>=$moduleVersion
```

In our case we'll use this example:
```bash
oc label node my-node-1 kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.labsv2.kmm-ci-a=0.9
```

> Then we can use a new build based on previous build example by just adapting the ModuleLoader (adding `version` and specific `containerImage` for that version) and reusing existing Configmap for build. Make sure you have deleted any Module object left from past examples and apply following Module:

Reviewer: I think we should mention that  "ordered upgrade" works only in case "version field was defined in the Module from the very-begining: it won't work on an already existing Module without version field, which will be added during the Module edit

```

A new module named `kmm-ci-a` with object version 0.9 and image `kmm-kmod-${KERNEL_FULL_VERSION}-v0.9` will be created at node `my-node-1`.
If we look back at the first example in the Lab about In-Cluster building from sources we will find that containerImage was `kmm-kmod-${KERNEL_FULL_VERSION}-v1.0` and if made all the examples we should have that v1.1 image at our registry.
Let's pretend that we want to update our actual v0.9 module to v1.0.

1. Check in advance that you have both v0.9 and v1.0 images at your registry.
2. Remove 0.9 label from the node:
```
oc label node my-node-1 kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.labsv2.kmm-ci-a-
```
3. Check that unlabeling the node killed the Module pods.
4. Label with the new desired version:
```
oc label node my-node-1 kmm.node.kubernetes.io/version-module.labsv2.kmm-ci-a=1.0
```
5. Edit the module object and change both `version` and `containerImage` with the new version number and matching image 
   (In our example 1.0 for the version and `kmm-kmod-${KERNEL_FULL_VERSION}-v1.0` for the containerImage):
```
oc edit module kmm-ci-a
```
6. The new module version is loaded.

## Loading soft dependencies

> Kernel modules sometimes have dependencies on others modules so those dependencies have to be loaded in advance. In the following example `kmm-ci-a` depends on `kmm-ci-b` so we will set `modulesLoadingOrder` and then the list with the `moduleName` as the first entry followed by all of its dependencies. In our case it is just `kmm-ci-b` but it could be a longer list with multiple dependency modules.

Reviewer: we should add that soft dependency should be used when there is a logical dependency between modules,but no  symbols' dependency (otherwise modprobe  would have done the work automatically)
